
IDEA: Columbia Wide Messaging/Planner Application.
Title: Columbia Chat: Not That Other Crap. 


Team members:

  (1) Chinmay Garg (UNI: cg3286)

  (2) Umang Raj (UNI: ur1236)

  (3) Harrison Groll (UNI: hsg2136)

  (4) Sounak Ray (UNI: sr3846)



PAIN POINTS :

1. Currently, multiple Platforms (WhatsApp, Slack, Discord, WeChat, Messenger, Piazza, iMessage, Snapchat) are being used concurrently for communication by Columbia students. These applications usually need invite links for people to be added to various groups. Also, for platforms like WhatsApp, the invite link for groups needs to be generated every single time, making the process of adding new people cumbersome. Moreover, it is easy to miss messages between so many platforms, and not everyone has an account on every platform.

2. Most of the platforms that are currently being used have a participation cap on groups. Currently, this cannot accommodate the large number of Columbia affiliate  on a single platform and people end up being excluded. For example, there are over 300 fall MS in Computer Science admits, but WhatsApp groups have a cap of 256.

3. The access to groups on other platforms cannot be controlled, enabling non-affiliates of Columbia University with the groups' links to be added to the groups and then spamming on groups. People outside of Columbia (scammers) can be added to the groups without any checks to prevent that.

4. People need to know about groups in advance or know someone in the group to be invited. 

5. To make a group, we have to have the contact information of every single person that we want to be added to the group and then manually add them. This becomes difficult and repetitive for large course sections (with common people in them) or social gatherings, e.g., river cruise/computer science mixers/Engineering Software as a Service course.



PROPOSED SOLUTION (AND HOW IT HANDLES PAIN POINTS) :

1. ONE single unified platform used for all university-wide communication between students. This means you don't have to communicate through 10 different apps, which is counterproductive and makes it easy to miss messages. We could also potentially embed Piazza/Ed Discussion into the web application.

2. No participation cap on groups. There will be no limit to the number of people who can be added to the groups and hence, no more "group is already full" messages!

3. LionMail email checks will be used to ALLOW only Columbia affiliates on the platform. There will be no more scammers looking to sell assignment completion products!

4. In Columbia Chat, people can automatically get added to relevant course/social groups even if they don't know a single person in the group. Affiliates can log in and instantly have access to all the relevant social/course groups. Potentially, we could have SSOL-based login that will automatically generate a user profile.

5. Allow groups to be discoverable within a certain radius - all eligible participants within that radius can see the group and join. Also, a unique QR code can be generated for each group. This will allow people to scan the QR code to be added to the group without exchanging contact information. The QR code can also be used on flyers so people can join the group from the flyer. (Stretch Goal)



CLEAR DIFFERENTIATION FROM SOLUTIONS ON THE MARKET :

1. Existing platforms like WhatsApp, Discord, Slack and WeChat have multiple groups for course and social event planning. It is not possible to find existing groups for such discussions on these platforms. We have to know someone in the group or create a group and hope that people with similar interests and courses join these groups by finding the invitation link somewhere. In our application, people can search for all the groups of their interest on a single platform and add themselves to the group independently. They do not have to rely on other people to add them to the groups or share the invitation links. Also, we currently have Piazza for official communications about a course but there is no other place to have more informal discussions about the course content, course workload, midterm planning, forming study groups etc.

2. The existing participation cap for various platforms like WhatsApp (256), Messenger (250), WeChat(500) will be removed from our application, thus making it accessible to everyone in the Columbia fraternity.

3. None of the existing platforms (except Discord) has a check to ALLOW only Columbia affiliates to be added on the platform. Discord needs server administrators to create groups. Users cannot make their own public/private groups and need to use another platform/server. 

YOUTUBE PROPOSAL VIDEO :
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NbGkmNeq6u8&feature=youtu.be
